README.md, before:

## Goals
- Learn about
  - TDD approach
  - Separation of concerns
  - Single repsonsibility principle
  - Using mocking in tests
  - Have fun!
- Remember... Enjoy yourself!
  - Don't feel too much pressure with this.
  - You are free to reach out for assistance at any time, but I recommend giving things a shot before doing so just to help you learn to think through the ideas.
  - Consider typing the code in instead of just copying and pasting. I've provided it to make it easy to focus on understanding the concepts, but it will help you to internalize it.

## Setup
  - [Sign up for the Cat Api](https://thecatapi.com/)
    - Note: You will receive an email with api key - save this
- Make sure you have rails 7 installed as well as ruby >= 3.1

## Create a new Rails project:
``rails new Catutorial -d postgresql -T -G``
- -d sets the database you would like to use for the project. In this case postgresql.
- -T prevents the default test folder from being generated since we'll be using rspec
- -G skips setting up a git repository since you've probably already cloned this one.

## Switch to the newly created project folder:
``cd Catutorial``

## Make a commit:

- ``git add -A``
- ``git commit -m "initial commit"``

## Initialize the database:
``rails db:create``

## Start rails to test that the app is working so far:
``rails s``

## Stop once you verify the app is running.
# Next, Add the following to the existing section in your Gemfile:

```
group :development, :test do
  gem "debug", platforms: %i[ mri mingw x64_mingw ]
  gem 'rspec'
  gem 'rspec-rails'
  gem 'rspec-mocks'
  gem 'solargraph'
  gem 'pry-rails'
  gem 'pry-byebug'
end
```

## Execute the following commands:
- ``bundle install``
- ``rails g rspec:install``

## Make sure app is still working:
``rail s``

## If it is working, go ahead and stop the app and then commit again:

``git commit -m “Adding spec and debugging gems”``

## Create the following file in your spec folder:
cat_repository_spec.rb

## Add a describe block inside cat_repository_spec.rb
```
describe 'CatRepository' do
  describe 'get_categories' do
    it 'should return cats' do
      expect(nil).to eq true
    end
  end  
end
```

# Run the tests:
``bundle exec rspec``
- Tests should fail


## Create the following file inside the lib folder:
``cat_repository.rb``

## Create the class CatRepository inside this file:
```
class CatRepository
  def initialize()
  end

  def get_categories()
    nil
  end
end
```

## Update 'should return cat categories' test in cat_repository_spec.rb:
```
it 'should return cat categories' do
    #arrange
    cat_repository = CatRepository.new

    #act
    actual_result = cat_repository.get_categories()

    #assert
    expect(actual_result.length()).to > 0
end
```

## Run tests again:
``bundle exec rspec``
- The tests will fail again

## Add an API_URL and API_KEY constants to the top of CatRepository class:
```
API_URL = 'https://api.thecatapi.com/v1/'
API_KEY = 'your-api-key-goes-here'
```
- Note: This is not an ideal way to manage configuration, but it will do for now.

## Implement make_request, generate_url and default_headers in at the bottom of the CatRepository class in a private section:
```
def make_request(path:, headers:, params: {})
  JSON.parse(
    RestClient::Request.execute(headers: headers, method: :get, url: generate_url(path, params)),
    { :symbolize_names => true }
  )
end

def generate_url(path, params)
  "#{API_URL}#{path}#{'?' + params.to_param unless params.empty?}"
end

def default_headers()
  {
    'x-api-key': API_KEY,
    'content-type': 'application/json',
  }
end
```

## Implement get_categories in CatRepository class:
```
def get_categories()
    make_request(path: 'categories', headers: default_headers())
end
```

## Run Rspec to verify test still failing:
``bundle exec rspec``

## Update test to a hopefully passing state:
```
it 'should return cat categories' do
  # arrange
  cat_repository = CatRepository.new

  # act
  actual_result = cat_repository.get_categories()

  # assert
  expect(actual_result.length()).to be > 0
end
```

## Run Tests:
``bundle exec rspec``

## Checkpoint
- Congrats! You've got a working test using the actual API.
- We'll now move on to leveraging this call we've implemented.
  
# TO BE CONTINUED

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following:
commit ff7d02b5bdebe3ff365847792329f1ea2fe3c810
Author: Paul Gower <paul@lunamark.com>
Date:   Fri Feb 25 12:59:44 2022 -0600

    Automatically include rails_helper in rspec tests

commit 10f97f0382403659b8f956e9013719be48ca7c97
Author: Paul Gower <paul@lunamark.com>
Date:   Fri Feb 25 12:59:19 2022 -0600

    Ignore JetBrains config files

README.md, after:

## Goals
- Learn about
  - TDD approach
  - Separation of concerns
  - Single repsonsibility principle
  - Using mocking in tests
  - Have fun!
- Remember... Enjoy yourself!
  - Don't feel too much pressure with this.
  - You are free to reach out for assistance at any time, but I recommend giving things a shot before doing so just to help you learn to think through the ideas.
  - Consider typing the code in instead of just copying and pasting. I've provided it to make it easy to focus on understanding the concepts, but it will help you to internalize it.

## Setup
  - [Sign up for the Cat Api](https://thecatapi.com/)
    - Note: You will receive an email with api key - save this
- Make sure you have rails 7 installed as well as ruby >= 3.1

## Create a new Rails project:
``rails new Catutorial -d postgresql -T -G``
- -d sets the database you would like to use for the project. In this case postgresql.
- -T prevents the default test folder from being generated since we'll be using rspec
- -G skips setting up a git repository since you've probably already cloned this one.

## Switch to the newly created project folder:
``cd Catutorial``

## Make a commit:

- ``git add -A``
- ``git commit -m "initial commit"``

## Initialize the database:
``rails db:create``

## Start rails to test that the app is working so far:
``rails s``

## Stop once you verify the app is running.
# Next, Add the following to the existing section in your Gemfile:

```
group :development, :test do
  gem "debug", platforms: %i[ mri mingw x64_mingw ]
  gem 'rspec'
  gem 'rspec-rails'
  gem 'rspec-mocks'
  gem 'solargraph'
  gem 'pry-rails'
  gem 'pry-byebug'
end
```

## Execute the following commands:
- ``bundle install``
- ``rails g rspec:install``

## Add rails_helper to rspec file
- Add the following line to the `Catutorial/.rspec` config file
- ``--require rails_helper``

## Make sure app is still working:
``rail s``

## If it is working, go ahead and stop the app and then commit again:

``git commit -m “Adding spec and debugging gems”``

## Create the following file in your spec folder:
cat_repository_spec.rb

## Add a describe block inside cat_repository_spec.rb
```
describe 'CatRepository' do
  describe 'get_categories' do
    it 'should return cats' do
      expect(nil).to eq true
    end
  end  
end
```

# Run the tests:
``bundle exec rspec``
- Tests should fail


## Create the following file inside the lib folder:
``cat_repository.rb``

## Create the class CatRepository inside this file:
```
class CatRepository
  def initialize()
  end

  def get_categories()
    nil
  end
end
```

## Update 'should return cat categories' test in cat_repository_spec.rb:
```
it 'should return cat categories' do
    #arrange
    cat_repository = CatRepository.new

    #act
    actual_result = cat_repository.get_categories()

    #assert
    expect(actual_result.length()).to > 0
end
```

## Run tests again:
``bundle exec rspec``
- The tests will fail again

## Add an API_URL and API_KEY constants to the top of CatRepository class:
```
API_URL = 'https://api.thecatapi.com/v1/'
API_KEY = 'your-api-key-goes-here'
```
- Note: This is not an ideal way to manage configuration, but it will do for now.

## Implement make_request, generate_url and default_headers in at the bottom of the CatRepository class in a private section:
```
def make_request(path:, headers:, params: {})
  JSON.parse(
    RestClient::Request.execute(headers: headers, method: :get, url: generate_url(path, params)),
    { :symbolize_names => true }
  )
end

def generate_url(path, params)
  "#{API_URL}#{path}#{'?' + params.to_param unless params.empty?}"
end

def default_headers()
  {
    'x-api-key': API_KEY,
    'content-type': 'application/json',
  }
end
```

## Implement get_categories in CatRepository class:
```
def get_categories()
    make_request(path: 'categories', headers: default_headers())
end
```

## Run Rspec to verify test still failing:
``bundle exec rspec``

## Update test to a hopefully passing state:
```
it 'should return cat categories' do
  # arrange
  cat_repository = CatRepository.new

  # act
  actual_result = cat_repository.get_categories()

  # assert
  expect(actual_result.length()).to be > 0
end
```

## Run Tests:
``bundle exec rspec``

## Checkpoint
- Congrats! You've got a working test using the actual API.
- We'll now move on to leveraging this call we've implemented.
  
# TO BE CONTINUED
